So we're gonna come over
here to our exercises,
and we're gonna go to Bloom Filters.
Okay, and let's take a look at this.
So first of all I have three
hashing functions here for
you that I have already built for you.
You don't have to do anything about them,
you don't have to
understand how they work.
They use a library called xxhashjs, which
is just a really fast hashing algorithm.
They'll take a string and
turn it into a number, and
then I turned that number into
a number between 0 and 199, right?
So that you can use a bloom
filter of size 100.
So the first thing I'll say here for
your bloom filter, in fact,
this just kind of set this up for
you so you can get rolling right away.
Bloom filters solutions.
So I would just put a constructor up here.
And then I would just say like this._array
= new Array(100).fill(0).
So this will give you an array on
this ._array that is just filled with
0s, right?
And then you'll just be flipping those
to 1 just like how I showed you.
So all you need to do is do an add
here and a contains here, and
we'll go from there, cool.
This is actually a fairly
straight forward one,
I think I only end up writing ten lines
of code to get all this all done.
So, yeah, cool.
Let's build a bloom filter.
So, the first thing we already built here
was this array = new Array(100).fill(0).
We have an array of 100
things filled with 0s, right?
So, to do an add really all we're
going to do is this._array.
And then we're gonna put our three hashing
functions here, string = 1, right?
And actually we're just gonna
do that three times for
all of our three hashing functions.
That's it,
that's all I gotta do to add something.
So one big key thing that you
know about Bloom filters,
we can't delete anything, right?
Because how do you know what to delete and
what has previously used and
what hasn't, right?
There's no additional information here.
So that's another kind of downfall of
Bloom filters is that they cannot delete
from a Bloom filter, Okay?
Then here with the contains,
all you're gonna do is return and
I'm gonna show you a little trick here.
If you put a double
exclamation point this is gonna
coalesce it into a Boolean, right?
So this is gonna take whatever this
comes back as a true or false.
And I'll say this._array,
each one string and
then I want to do this like this h2.
Sorry, this one right
here is gonna be h2 and
this one right here is gonna be h3,
just like that.
So, yeah, let's talk about this
is a little bit clever, but
let's just walk through it.
Each one, so
this is gonna be either a 0 or a 1,
this is gonna be a 0 or a 1, and
this is gonna be a 0 or a 1, right?
0s, if you do this,
I'll just ignore that's not helpful.
Make a little bit bigger down here.
If you look here in the bottom,
right, if I do, 0 == false,
that's true, right, same with true == 1.
So these things if you're willing to do,
what's the word I'm looking for?
That's just escaping me,
the term there, anyway.
If you're willing to convert
it from a number to a Boolean,
then you can do it this way
with a double equal sign.
So if I put !!0 that actually
comes back as false, right?
And if I put !!1 that comes back as true.
So if I do !!0(&&0 &&0), that's false,
but if any one of these is true,
this comes back as or
actually, Right?
So only if they all come
back as 1 is it true.
So now,
we should be able to run our test here.
Let's reset my Zoom here play.
And if you go look at
Bloom filters we got to
not skip this, And click Play.
And did that work?
No.
How these are all skipped, let's do this.
Okay, one more time, let's try it,
Bloom filters, there we go.
And let's click on that, you can see
that it's returning false and empty,
handles one item, handles many items,
all that works super well.
Okay, so you could have done this
in a much less clever way and
just said like if this._array h1 === 1 and
the h2 and h3, all that kind of stuff.
And that would have probably been more
clear, but this seemed kind of terse and
nice so I went well with that.
That's it, that's all Bloom filters.
Anyone have any questions
about Bloom filters?
>> Yeah,
I got a question about implementation.
Because it's JavaScript, right?
Like no matter what our hash
function is gonna return,
it's still gonna put it there.
The fact that we create an array
of size 100 doesn't matter,
right, like, technically.
If it doesn't return the number
if it's gonna return the string,
Is just gonna go there and
create a property.
>> Yeah, that's true.
Okay.
>> I think, I mean, not good programming,
but let's just triple check,
make sure that correct.
If I say x = empty array,
and I say x(100) = 1,
and then I asked for
x(100) gives me 1 back, yeah?
So, you're absolutely correct.
>> Okay, good.
>> So, but here we created a number,
an array of 100.
So I guess what you're saying is,
JavaScript will dynamically allocate
that for you no matter what.
So you could have just said new Array and
you can treat undefined as 0.
Yeah, that would work with JavaScript.
I don't know if I suggested it,
do I suggest it?
I don't know if it matters,
honestly, I don't know.
[LAUGH] It's good to have defined
boundaries to your problem.
>> Yeah, just my problem is like,
it's kind of an illusion if our hash
function is not just numeric,
right, it's still gonna work.
Like we're not gonna know,
>> Yep.
Yeah, yeah.
And the only reason that does work is
cuz we have these modules right here for
our hashing functions that guarantees
that it stays between 0 and 99.